Are you using your time effectively at work?
If you answered yes to this question, then how do you know?
Most of us have some aspect of our workday
that could be streamlined or used more productively.
We just may not be aware of it.
Time-tracking is one way to gain awareness.
You can learn where your time is going
and identify opportunities to improve your time management.
So, here's how to track your time
and make sure you're spending it in ways that align
with your goals and values.
As we get started, you may be wondering,
why should I track my time?
There are two main goals and benefits of time-tracking.
First, time-tracking gives you a more accurate understanding
of where your time is going.
How much time are you devoting
to competing projects and priorities?
Time-tracking can help you find out.
And second, time-tracking allows you to analyze
how you're spending your time.
Once you have reliable data on your time use,
you can then ask bigger questions such as,
where could I save or reallocate my time?
Tracking how you spend your time is similar
to tracking how you spend your money.
You have to understand your major expenses
and spending habits before you can learn
how to budget effectively.
Likewise, you must understand your time spending habits
before you can learn how to budget your time effectively.
So, how can you start time-tracking?
There are four main steps involved in tracking your time.
First, choose a time-tracking tool.
For example, you might use a spreadsheet,
create a simple list using a Word document or notebook
or research and select a time tracking app.
A time-tracking tool can be anything that allows you
to record how long you spend on daily activities.
Choose the tool that's easiest and most convenient
for you to use.
The second step is to categorize your activities.
In other words,
how might you group your daily individual tasks
into broader themes?
For example, you might create categories based
on your core job responsibilities or projects,
or you might also create categories
for common tasks like emails or meetings.
Remember that the goal of categorizing your activities is
to find bigger themes.
It's easier to analyze how you spend your time on a handful
of broad categories than it is on hundreds
of individual tasks.
The third step is to get started.
Track your time for a week or longer.
Make a daily habit of recording your activities
and how long you spend on them.
Track your time as you go,
don't wait until the end of the day.
For example, your notes might read, email 30 minutes,
meeting one hour or weekly blog post, four hours.
If you can, track your time for two weeks, three weeks
or even a month.
Your data will be more accurate over
a long time-tracking period.
Finally, the last step is to tally the results by category.
How long did you spend on each category
throughout your time-tracking period?
And what percentage of the work week are you spending
on each category?
For example, you might calculate
that you're spending two hours a week
on personal internet use.
If you're working a 40 hour work week,
that's 5% of your total time.
At this point, you've finished tracking your time
and the results are in.
But now, what do you do with those results
to make meaningful time management changes?
The answer is to analyze your findings.
Evaluate how you're distributing your time
across categories.
Take note of where you're spending the most time
and ask yourself questions such as,
is this a good use of my time?
Identify activities that could be cut or delegated.
Where could I save time?
Identify activities that could be streamlined, reduced,
or moved down your priority list.
And finally, where do I wanna spend more time?
Consider how you might reallocate your hours
to high value or high priority activities.
In summary, time-tracking is twofold.
First, record how you're spending your time
to get more reliable data.
Second, analyze the results to determine
where you could save or reallocate your time
to better support your goals and values.
By following these practices, you'll gain awareness
of your time spending habits and identify opportunities
to make smarter and more informed time management decisions.